pact-jvm-provider-gradle/README.md, before:

pact-jvm-provider-gradle
========================

Gradle plugin for verifying pacts against a provider.

The Gradle plugin creates a task `pactVerify` to your build which will verify all configured pacts against your provider.

## To Use It

### For Gradle versions prior to 2.1

#### 1.1. Add the pact-jvm-provider-gradle jar file to your build script class path:

```groovy
buildscript {
    repositories {
        mavenCentral()
    }
    dependencies {
        classpath 'au.com.dius:pact-jvm-provider-gradle_2.10:2.2.1'
    }
}
```

#### 1.2. Apply the pact plugin

```groovy
apply plugin: 'au.com.dius.pact'
```

### For Gradle versions 2.1+

```groovy
plugins {
  id "au.com.dius.pact" version "2.2.1"
}
```

### 2. Define the pacts between your consumers and providers

```groovy

pact {

    serviceProviders {

        // You can define as many as you need, but each must have a unique name
        provider1 {
            // All the provider properties are optional, and have sensible defaults (shown below)
            protocol = 'http'
            host = 'localhost'
            port = 8080
            path = '/'

            // Again, you can define as many consumers for each provider as you need, but each must have a unique name
            hasPactWith('consumer1') {

                // currently supports a file path using file() or a URL using url()
                pactFile = file('path/to/provider1-consumer1-pact.json')

            }
            
            // Or if you have many pact files in a directory
            hasPactsWith('manyConsumers') {

                // Will define a consumer for each pact file in the directory. 
                // Consumer name is read from contents of pact file 
                pactFileLocation = file('path/to/pacts')
                               
            }

        }

    }

}
```

### 3. Execute `gradle pactVerify`

## Specifying the provider hostname at runtime

If you need to calculate the provider hostname at runtime, you can give a Closure as the provider host.

```groovy
pact {

    serviceProviders {

        provider1 {
            host = { lookupHostName() }

            hasPactWith('consumer1') {
                pactFile = file('path/to/provider1-consumer1-pact.json')
            }
        }

    }

}
```

## Starting and shutting down your provider

If you need to start-up or shutdown your provider, you can define a start and terminate task for each provider.
You could use the jetty tasks here if you provider is built as a WAR file.

```groovy

// This will be called before the provider task
task('startTheApp') << {
  // start up your provider here
}

// This will be called after the provider task
task('killTheApp') << {
  // kill your provider here
}

pact {

    serviceProviders {

        provider1 {

            startProviderTask = startTheApp
            terminateProviderTask = killTheApp

            hasPactWith('consumer1') {
                pactFile = file('path/to/provider1-consumer1-pact.json')
            }

        }

    }

}
```

Following typical Gradle behaviour, you can set the provider task properties to the actual tasks, or to the task names
as a string (for the case when they haven't been defined yet).

## Modifying the requests before they are sent

**NOTE on breaking change: Version 2.1.8+ uses Apache HttpClient instead of HttpBuilder so the closure will receive a
HttpRequest object instead of a request Map.**

Sometimes you may need to add things to the requests that can't be persisted in a pact file. Examples of these would
be authentication tokens, which have a small life span. The Pact Gradle plugin provides a request filter that can be
set to a closure on the provider that will be called before the request is made. This closure will receive the HttpRequest
prior to it being executed.

```groovy
pact {

    serviceProviders {

        provider1 {

            requestFilter = { req ->
                // Add an authorization header to each request
                req.addHeader('Authorization', 'OAUTH eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImN0eSI6ImFw...')
            }

            hasPactWith('consumer1') {
                pactFile = file('path/to/provider1-consumer1-pact.json')
            }

        }

    }

}
```

## Project Properties

The following project properties can be specified with `-Pproperty=value` on the command line:

|Property|Description|
|--------|-----------|
|pact.showStacktrace|This turns on stacktrace printing for each request. It can help with diagnosing network errors|
|pact.filter.consumers|Comma seperated list of consumer names to verify|
|pact.filter.description|Only verify interactions whose description match the provided regular expression|
|pact.filter.providerState|Only verify interactions whose provider state match the provided regular expression. An empty string matches interactions that have no state|

## Provider States

For each provider you can specify a state change URL to use to switch the state of the provider. This URL will
receive the providerState description from the pact file before each interaction via a POST. As for normal requests,
a request filter (`stateChangeRequestFilter`) can also be set to manipulate the request before it is sent.

You can also give a Closure for the stateChange that returns the URL.

```
pact {

    serviceProviders {

        provider1 {

            hasPactWith('consumer1') {
                pactFile = file('path/to/provider1-consumer1-pact.json')
                stateChange = url('http://localhost:8001/tasks/pactStateChange')
                stateChangeUsesBody = false // defaults to true
                stateChangeRequestFilter = { req ->
                    // Add an authorization header to each request
                    req.addHeader('Authorization', 'OAUTH eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImN0eSI6ImFw...')
                }
            }
            
            // or
            hasPactsWith('consumers') {
                pactFileLocation = file('path/to/pacts')                
                stateChange = url('http://localhost:8001/tasks/pactStateChange')
                stateChangeUsesBody = false // defaults to true
            }

        }

    }

}
```

If the `stateChangeUsesBody` is not specified, or is set to true, then the provider state description will be sent as
 JSON in the body of the request. If it is set to false, it will passed as a query parameter.

## Filtering the interactions that are verified

You can filter the interactions that are run using three project properties: `pact.filter.consumers`, `pact.filter.description` and `pact.filter.providerState`.
Adding `-Ppact.filter.consumers=consumer1,consumer2` to the command line will only run the pact files for those
consumers (consumer1 and consumer2). Adding `-Ppact.filter.description=a request for payment.*` will only run those interactions
whose descriptions start with 'a request for payment'. `-Ppact.filter.providerState=.*payment` will match any interaction that
has a provider state that ends with payment, and `-Ppact.filter.providerState=` will match any interaction that does not have a
provider state.

## Publishing to the Gradle Community Portal

To publish the plugin to the community portal:

    $ gradle :pact-jvm-provider-gradle_2.11:publishPlugins

Commit message:

reference the ruby wiki for provider states

pact-jvm-provider-gradle/README.md, after:

pact-jvm-provider-gradle
========================

Gradle plugin for verifying pacts against a provider.

The Gradle plugin creates a task `pactVerify` to your build which will verify all configured pacts against your provider.

## To Use It

### For Gradle versions prior to 2.1

#### 1.1. Add the pact-jvm-provider-gradle jar file to your build script class path:

```groovy
buildscript {
    repositories {
        mavenCentral()
    }
    dependencies {
        classpath 'au.com.dius:pact-jvm-provider-gradle_2.10:2.2.1'
    }
}
```

#### 1.2. Apply the pact plugin

```groovy
apply plugin: 'au.com.dius.pact'
```

### For Gradle versions 2.1+

```groovy
plugins {
  id "au.com.dius.pact" version "2.2.1"
}
```

### 2. Define the pacts between your consumers and providers

```groovy

pact {

    serviceProviders {

        // You can define as many as you need, but each must have a unique name
        provider1 {
            // All the provider properties are optional, and have sensible defaults (shown below)
            protocol = 'http'
            host = 'localhost'
            port = 8080
            path = '/'

            // Again, you can define as many consumers for each provider as you need, but each must have a unique name
            hasPactWith('consumer1') {

                // currently supports a file path using file() or a URL using url()
                pactFile = file('path/to/provider1-consumer1-pact.json')

            }
            
            // Or if you have many pact files in a directory
            hasPactsWith('manyConsumers') {

                // Will define a consumer for each pact file in the directory. 
                // Consumer name is read from contents of pact file 
                pactFileLocation = file('path/to/pacts')
                               
            }

        }

    }

}
```

### 3. Execute `gradle pactVerify`

## Specifying the provider hostname at runtime

If you need to calculate the provider hostname at runtime, you can give a Closure as the provider host.

```groovy
pact {

    serviceProviders {

        provider1 {
            host = { lookupHostName() }

            hasPactWith('consumer1') {
                pactFile = file('path/to/provider1-consumer1-pact.json')
            }
        }

    }

}
```

## Starting and shutting down your provider

If you need to start-up or shutdown your provider, you can define a start and terminate task for each provider.
You could use the jetty tasks here if you provider is built as a WAR file.

```groovy

// This will be called before the provider task
task('startTheApp') << {
  // start up your provider here
}

// This will be called after the provider task
task('killTheApp') << {
  // kill your provider here
}

pact {

    serviceProviders {

        provider1 {

            startProviderTask = startTheApp
            terminateProviderTask = killTheApp

            hasPactWith('consumer1') {
                pactFile = file('path/to/provider1-consumer1-pact.json')
            }

        }

    }

}
```

Following typical Gradle behaviour, you can set the provider task properties to the actual tasks, or to the task names
as a string (for the case when they haven't been defined yet).

## Modifying the requests before they are sent

**NOTE on breaking change: Version 2.1.8+ uses Apache HttpClient instead of HttpBuilder so the closure will receive a
HttpRequest object instead of a request Map.**

Sometimes you may need to add things to the requests that can't be persisted in a pact file. Examples of these would
be authentication tokens, which have a small life span. The Pact Gradle plugin provides a request filter that can be
set to a closure on the provider that will be called before the request is made. This closure will receive the HttpRequest
prior to it being executed.

```groovy
pact {

    serviceProviders {

        provider1 {

            requestFilter = { req ->
                // Add an authorization header to each request
                req.addHeader('Authorization', 'OAUTH eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImN0eSI6ImFw...')
            }

            hasPactWith('consumer1') {
                pactFile = file('path/to/provider1-consumer1-pact.json')
            }

        }

    }

}
```

## Project Properties

The following project properties can be specified with `-Pproperty=value` on the command line:

|Property|Description|
|--------|-----------|
|pact.showStacktrace|This turns on stacktrace printing for each request. It can help with diagnosing network errors|
|pact.filter.consumers|Comma seperated list of consumer names to verify|
|pact.filter.description|Only verify interactions whose description match the provided regular expression|
|pact.filter.providerState|Only verify interactions whose provider state match the provided regular expression. An empty string matches interactions that have no state|

## Provider States

For a description of what provider states are, see the wiki in the Ruby project:
https://github.com/realestate-com-au/pact/wiki/Provider-states

### Using a state change URL

For each provider you can specify a state change URL to use to switch the state of the provider. This URL will
receive the providerState description from the pact file before each interaction via a POST. As for normal requests,
a request filter (`stateChangeRequestFilter`) can also be set to manipulate the request before it is sent.

You can also give a Closure for the stateChange that returns the URL.

```groovy
pact {

    serviceProviders {

        provider1 {

            hasPactWith('consumer1') {
                pactFile = file('path/to/provider1-consumer1-pact.json')
                stateChange = url('http://localhost:8001/tasks/pactStateChange')
                stateChangeUsesBody = false // defaults to true
                stateChangeRequestFilter = { req ->
                    // Add an authorization header to each request
                    req.addHeader('Authorization', 'OAUTH eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImN0eSI6ImFw...')
                }
            }
            
            // or
            hasPactsWith('consumers') {
                pactFileLocation = file('path/to/pacts')                
                stateChange = url('http://localhost:8001/tasks/pactStateChange')
                stateChangeUsesBody = false // defaults to true
            }

        }

    }

}
```

If the `stateChangeUsesBody` is not specified, or is set to true, then the provider state description will be sent as
 JSON in the body of the request. If it is set to false, it will passed as a query parameter.

## Filtering the interactions that are verified

You can filter the interactions that are run using three project properties: `pact.filter.consumers`, `pact.filter.description` and `pact.filter.providerState`.
Adding `-Ppact.filter.consumers=consumer1,consumer2` to the command line will only run the pact files for those
consumers (consumer1 and consumer2). Adding `-Ppact.filter.description=a request for payment.*` will only run those interactions
whose descriptions start with 'a request for payment'. `-Ppact.filter.providerState=.*payment` will match any interaction that
has a provider state that ends with payment, and `-Ppact.filter.providerState=` will match any interaction that does not have a
provider state.

## Publishing to the Gradle Community Portal

To publish the plugin to the community portal:

    $ gradle :pact-jvm-provider-gradle_2.11:publishPlugins
