pact-jvm-server/README.md, before:


Pact server
===========

The pact server is a stand-alone interactions recorder and verifier, aimed at clients that are non-JVM or non-Ruby based.

The pact client for that platform will need to be implemented, but it only be responsible for generating the `JSON`
interactions, running the tests and communicating with the server.

The server implements a `JSON` `REST` Admin API with the following endpoints.

    /         -> For diagnostics, currently returns a list of ports of the running mock servers.
    /create   -> For initialising a test server and submitting the JSON interactions. It returns a port
    /complete -> For finalising and verifying the interactions with the server.  It writes the `JSON` pact file to disk.

## Running the server

Pact server takes the following parameters:

```
Usage: pact-jvm-server [options] [port]

  port
        port to run on (defaults to 29999)
  --help
        prints this usage text
  -h <value> | --host <value>
        host to bind to (defaults to localhost)
  -l <value> | --mock-port-lower <value>
        lower bound to allocate mock ports (defaults to 20000)
  -u <value> | --mock-port-upper <value>
        upper bound to allocate mock ports (defaults to 40000)
  -d | --daemon
        run as a daemon process
  -v <value> | --pact-version <value>
        pact version to generate for (2 or 3)
  -k <value> | --keystore-path <value>
        Path to keystore
  -p <value> | --keystore-password <value>
        Keystore password
  -s <value> | --ssl-port <value>   
        Ssl port the mock server should run on. lower and upper bounds are ignored
  --debug
        run with debug logging
```

### Using trust store
Trust store can be used. However, it is limited to a single port for the time being.

### Using a distribution archive

You can download a [distribution from maven central](http://search.maven.org/remotecontent?filepath=au/com/dius/pact/pact-jvm-server/4.1.0/).
There is both a ZIP and TAR archive. Unpack it to a directory of choice and then run the script in the bin directory.

### Building a distribution bundle

You can build an application bundle with gradle by running:

    $ ./gradlew :pact-jvm-server:installdist

This will create an app bundle in `build/install/pact-jvm-server`. You can then execute it with:

    $ java -jar pact-jvm-server/build/install/pact-jvm-server/lib/pact-jvm-server-4.0.1.jar

or with the generated bundle script file:

    $ pact-jvm-server/build/install/pact-jvm-server/bin/pact-jvm-server

By default will run on port `29999` but a port number can be optionally supplied.

### Running it with docker

You can use a docker image to execute the mock server as a docker container.

    $ docker run -d -p 8080:8080 -p 20000-20010:20000-20010 uglyog/pact-jvm-server

This will run the main server on port 8080, and each created mock server on ports 20000-20010. You can map the ports to
any you require.

## Life cycle

The following actions are expected to occur

 * The client calls `/create` to initialise a server with the expected `JSON` interactions and state
 * The admin server will start a mock server on a random port and return the port number in the response
 * The client will execute its interaction tests against the mock server with the supplied port
 * Once finished, the client will call `/complete' on the Admin API, posting the port number
 * The pact server will verify the interactions and write the `JSON` `pact` file to disk under `/target`
 * The mock server running on the supplied port will be shutdown.

## Endpoints

### /create

The client will need `POST` to `/create` the generated `JSON` interactions, also providing a state as a query parameter
and a path.

For example:

    POST http://localhost:29999/create?state=NoUsers&path=/sub/ref/path '{ "provider": { "name": "Animal_Service"}, ... }'

This will create a new running mock service provider on a randomly generated port.  The port will be returned in the
`201` response:

    { "port" : 34423 }

But you can also reference the path from `/sub/ref/path` using the server port.  The service will not strip
the prefix path, but instead will use it as a differentiator.  If your services do not have differences
in the prefix of their path, then you will have to use the port method.

### /complete

Once the client has finished running its tests against the mock server on the supplied port (in this example port
`34423`) the client will need to `POST` to `/complete` the port number of the mock server that was used.

For example:

    POST http://localhost:29999/complete '{ "port" : 34423 }'

This will cause the Pact server to verify the interactions, shutdown the mock server running on that port and writing
the pact `JSON` file to disk under the `target` directory.

### /

The `/` endpoint is for diagnostics and to check that the pact server is running.  It will return all the currently
running mock servers port numbers.

For example:

    GET http://localhost:29999/

        '{ "ports": [23443,43232] }'

Commit message:

Added functionality to publish a created contract on disk to a broker. Verified with both pactflow as open source pact broker

pact-jvm-server/README.md, after:


Pact server
===========

The pact server is a stand-alone interactions recorder and verifier, aimed at clients that are non-JVM or non-Ruby based.

The pact client for that platform will need to be implemented, but it only be responsible for generating the `JSON`
interactions, running the tests and communicating with the server.

The server implements a `JSON` `REST` Admin API with the following endpoints.

    /         -> For diagnostics, currently returns a list of ports of the running mock servers.
    /create   -> For initialising a test server and submitting the JSON interactions. It returns a port
    /complete -> For finalising and verifying the interactions with the server.  It writes the `JSON` pact file to disk.
    /publish  -> For publishing contracts. It takes a contract from disk and publishes it to the configured broker

## Running the server

Pact server takes the following parameters:

```
Usage: pact-jvm-server [options] [port]

  port
        port to run on (defaults to 29999)
  --help
        prints this usage text
  -h <value> | --host <value>
        host to bind to (defaults to localhost)
  -l <value> | --mock-port-lower <value>
        lower bound to allocate mock ports (defaults to 20000)
  -u <value> | --mock-port-upper <value>
        upper bound to allocate mock ports (defaults to 40000)
  -d | --daemon
        run as a daemon process
  -v <value> | --pact-version <value>
        pact version to generate for (2 or 3)
  -k <value> | --keystore-path <value>
        Path to keystore
  -p <value> | --keystore-password <value>
        Keystore password
  -s <value> | --ssl-port <value>   
        Ssl port the mock server should run on. lower and upper bounds are ignored
  -b <value> | --broker <value>
        The baseUrl of the broker to publish contracts to (for example https://organization.broker.com
  -t <value | --token <value>
        API token for authentication to the pact broker 
  --debug
        run with debug logging
```

### Using trust store
Trust store can be used. However, it is limited to a single port for the time being.

### Using a distribution archive

You can download a [distribution from maven central](http://search.maven.org/remotecontent?filepath=au/com/dius/pact/pact-jvm-server/4.1.0/).
There is both a ZIP and TAR archive. Unpack it to a directory of choice and then run the script in the bin directory.

### Building a distribution bundle

You can build an application bundle with gradle by running:

    $ ./gradlew :pact-jvm-server:installdist

This will create an app bundle in `build/install/pact-jvm-server`. You can then execute it with:

    $ java -jar pact-jvm-server/build/install/pact-jvm-server/lib/pact-jvm-server-4.0.1.jar

or with the generated bundle script file:

    $ pact-jvm-server/build/install/pact-jvm-server/bin/pact-jvm-server

By default will run on port `29999` but a port number can be optionally supplied.

### Running it with docker

You can use a docker image to execute the mock server as a docker container.

    $ docker run -d -p 8080:8080 -p 20000-20010:20000-20010 uglyog/pact-jvm-server

This will run the main server on port 8080, and each created mock server on ports 20000-20010. You can map the ports to
any you require.

## Life cycle

The following actions are expected to occur

 * The client calls `/create` to initialise a server with the expected `JSON` interactions and state
 * The admin server will start a mock server on a random port and return the port number in the response
 * The client will execute its interaction tests against the mock server with the supplied port
 * Once finished, the client will call `/complete' on the Admin API, posting the port number
 * The pact server will verify the interactions and write the `JSON` `pact` file to disk under `/target`
 * The mock server running on the supplied port will be shutdown.
 * The client will call `/publish` to publish the created contract to the configured pact broker

## Endpoints

### /create

The client will need `POST` to `/create` the generated `JSON` interactions, also providing a state as a query parameter
and a path.

For example:

    POST http://localhost:29999/create?state=NoUsers&path=/sub/ref/path '{ "provider": { "name": "Animal_Service"}, ... }'

This will create a new running mock service provider on a randomly generated port.  The port will be returned in the
`201` response:

    { "port" : 34423 }

But you can also reference the path from `/sub/ref/path` using the server port.  The service will not strip
the prefix path, but instead will use it as a differentiator.  If your services do not have differences
in the prefix of their path, then you will have to use the port method.

### /complete

Once the client has finished running its tests against the mock server on the supplied port (in this example port
`34423`) the client will need to `POST` to `/complete` the port number of the mock server that was used.

For example:

    POST http://localhost:29999/complete '{ "port" : 34423 }'

This will cause the Pact server to verify the interactions, shutdown the mock server running on that port and writing
the pact `JSON` file to disk under the `target` directory.

### /publish

Once all interactions have been tested the `/publish` endpoint can be called to publish the created pact to the pact broker
For this it is required to run the pact-jvm-server with the -b parameter to configure the pact broker to publish the pacts to.
Optionaly an authentication token can be used for authentication against the broker.

For example:

    POST http://localhost:29999/publish '{ "consumer": "Zoo", "consumerVersion": "0.0.1", "provider": "Animal_Service" }'

This will cause the Pact server to check for the pact `Zoo-Animal_Service.json` on disk under `target` and publish it to
the configured pact broker. After a successful publish the pact will be removed from disk.

### /

The `/` endpoint is for diagnostics and to check that the pact server is running.  It will return all the currently
running mock servers port numbers.

For example:

    GET http://localhost:29999/

        '{ "ports": [23443,43232] }'
